sources/pipelines/jobs/runCLI.md, before:

page_title: Unified Pipeline Jobs - runCLI
page_description: List of supported jobs
page_keywords: Deploy multi containers, microservices, Continuous Integration, Continuous Deployment, CI/CD, testing, automation, pipelines, docker, lxc


# runCLI
This job combines the unlimited flexibility of a runSh job with the convenience of automatic environment preparation. A runCLI job lets you run any custom scripts, as described in [runSh](./runSh/). Additionally, when you add [cliConfig](../resources/cliConfig/) resources as inputs to this job, the relevant CLI tools will automatically be installed and configured. runCLI jobs also contain the `shippable_replace` tool, a command-line tool that replaces placeholders in files with values from the environment.


## Anatomy of a runCLI job

The following sample shows the overall structure of a runCLI job:

```
jobs:
  - name: <name>                                #required
    type: runCLI                                #required
    on_start:                                   #optional
      - script: echo 'This block executes when the TASK starts'
      - NOTIFY: slackNotification
    steps:                                      #required
      - IN: <resource>                          #specify at least one cliConfig resource to set up CLI tools
      - IN: <resource>
      - TASK:
        - script: <command>
        - script: <command>
      - OUT: <resource>
      - OUT: <resource>
    on_success:                                 #optional
      - script: echo 'This block executes after the TASK section executes successfully'
      - NOTIFY: slackNotification
    on_failure:                                 #optional
      - script: echo 'This block executes if the TASK section fails'
      - NOTIFY: slackNotification
    always:                                     #optional
      - script: echo 'This block executes if the TASK section succeeds or fails'
      - NOTIFY: slackNotification


```

* `name` should be set to something that describes what the job does and is easy to remember. This will be the display name of the job in your pipeline visualization.
* `type` indicates type of job. In this case it is always `runCLI`.
* `on_start` can be used to send a notification indicating the job has started running.
* `steps` section is where the steps of your custom job should be entered. You can have any number of `IN` and `OUT` resources depending on what your job needs. If an `IN` resource is a [cliConfig](../resources/cliConfig/), we will use the integration specified in the `cliConfig` to configure the relevant CLI tools for you. You can also have one `TASK` section where you can enter one or more of your custom scripts. Keep in mind that everything under the `steps` section executes sequentially.
* `on_success` can be used to run scripts that only execute if the `TASK` section executes successfully. You can also use this to send a notification as shown in the example above. The `NOTIFY` tag is set to a [Slack notification resource](../resources/notification/).
* `on_failure` can be used to run scripts that only execute if the `TASK` section fails. You can also use this to send a notification as shown in the example above. The `NOTIFY` tag is set to a [Slack notification resource](../resources/notification/).
* `always` can be used to run scripts that only execute if the `TASK` section succeeds or fails. You can also use this to send a notification as shown in the example above. The `NOTIFY` tag is set to a [Slack notification resource](../resources/notification/).

## Configured tools
The runCLI job uses the subscription integration specified in the [cliConfig](../resources/cliConfig/) to determine which CLI tools to configure. These tools are configured with the credentials contained in the [subscription integration](../../navigatingUI/subscriptions/settings/#adding-integrations). Below is a list of the tools configured for each integration type.

| Integration Type                    | Configured Tools           |
| ------------------------------------|-------------|
| AWS                                 | [AWS CLI](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/); [EB (Elastic Beanstalk) CLI](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticbeanstalk/latest/dg/eb-cli3.html) |
| Amazon EC2 Container Registry (ECR) | [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/docker/) |
| Docker Hub                          | [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/docker/) |
| Docker Trusted Registry             | [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/docker/) |
| Google Container Engine             | [gcloud](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/); [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/user-guide/kubectl/) |
| Google Container Registry (GCR)     | [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/docker/) |
| JFrog Artifactory                   | [JFrog CLI](https://www.jfrog.com/confluence/display/CLI/CLI+for+JFrog+Artifactory) |
| Kubernetes                          | [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/user-guide/kubectl/) |
| Private Docker Registry             | [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/docker/) |
| Quay.io                             | [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/docker/) |

Terraform and Packer are also installed by default, and will be available in the path but not configured.

It's worth noting that if a runCLI job receives multiple `cliConfig` resources for the same provider, we will use the credentials contained in the last listed `cliConfig` when authenticating.

## shippable_replace
When you create a `runCLI` job, the `shippable_replace` command-line tool is automatically installed. `shippable_replace` looks for placeholders in one or more files, then replaces the placeholders with the values of the corresponding environment variables.

`shippable_replace` is used as follows:
```
shippable_replace [paths to files]
```

The file(s) passed to `shippable_replace` may contain one or more placeholders for environment variables. Placeholders are strings of the form $ENVIRONMENT_VARIABLE_NAME or ${ENVIRONMENT_VARIABLE_NAME}. We recommend ${ENVIRONMENT_VARIABLE_NAME}, as it is less likely to cause errors if you have an environment variable name that is a substring of another environment variable's name.

For example, say you wanted to insert the current job name into two different files: `file1.json` and `test/file2.txt`. The name of the environment variable containing the job name is `JOB_NAME`. (See the [runSh documentation](./runSh/) for the list of available environment variables.)

`file1.json` might look like this:
```
{
  "foo": "bar",
  "jobName": "${JOB_NAME}"
}
```
`test/file2.txt` contains this:
```
This job, ${JOB_NAME}, is the coolest job ever.
```
`shippable_replace` is then added to the task section of the `runCLI` job:
```
jobs:
  - name: myRunCLIJob
    type: runCLI
    steps:
      - IN: <resource>
      - TASK:
        - script: shippable_replace file1.json test/file2.txt
```

After `shippable_replace`, `file1.json` now looks like this:
```
{
  "foo": "bar",
  "jobName": "myRunCLIJob",
  "fizz": "buzz"
}
```
And `test/file2.txt` looks like this:
```
This job, myRunCLIJob, is the coolest job ever.
```

## Resource variables
Variables are added to the environment for all `IN` and `OUT` resources defined for the runCLI job. The environment variables are the same as those available for [runSh](./runSh/) jobs.

## Build Status Notifications
You can see the commit message with build URL, state and build number on SCM UI for the gitRepo everytime, using the runCLI job.
You can also selectively turn ON and OFF the message system using the `showBuildStatus` tag in the git Repo resource.

The sample runSh Job and the corresponding gitRepo resource will look like

```
jobs:
  - name: <name>                                #required
    type: runCLI                                #required
    steps:                                      #required
      - IN: <gitRepoResource>                   #specify at least one gitRepo resource to receive the commit message.
        showBuildStatus: true                   #specify to get the build status of the gitRepo resource on the SCM UI
      - TASK:
        - script: <command>
        - script: <command>

```
and the corresponding gitRepo resource will be

```
resources:
  - name: <name>                                #required
    type: gitRepo                               #required
    integration: <integrationName>              #required
    pointer:
      sourceName: <repoName>                    #required 
      branch: <branchName>                      #specify the branch name
      buildOnPullRequest: <boolean>             #specify true or false accordingly

```
* Now after doing the above steps, if a pull request is created for the branch name given in the gitRepo resource Yml, then
  the build status message will be sent to the SCM provider UI (whose integration is mentioned in the resources Yml) for the 
  repo mentioned in the sourceName in the resources Yml.

Commit message:

adds the pics for the SCM UI commit message

sources/pipelines/jobs/runCLI.md, after:

page_title: Unified Pipeline Jobs - runCLI
page_description: List of supported jobs
page_keywords: Deploy multi containers, microservices, Continuous Integration, Continuous Deployment, CI/CD, testing, automation, pipelines, docker, lxc


# runCLI
This job combines the unlimited flexibility of a runSh job with the convenience of automatic environment preparation. A runCLI job lets you run any custom scripts, as described in [runSh](./runSh/). Additionally, when you add [cliConfig](../resources/cliConfig/) resources as inputs to this job, the relevant CLI tools will automatically be installed and configured. runCLI jobs also contain the `shippable_replace` tool, a command-line tool that replaces placeholders in files with values from the environment.


## Anatomy of a runCLI job

The following sample shows the overall structure of a runCLI job:

```
jobs:
  - name: <name>                                #required
    type: runCLI                                #required
    on_start:                                   #optional
      - script: echo 'This block executes when the TASK starts'
      - NOTIFY: slackNotification
    steps:                                      #required
      - IN: <resource>                          #specify at least one cliConfig resource to set up CLI tools
      - IN: <resource>
      - TASK:
        - script: <command>
        - script: <command>
      - OUT: <resource>
      - OUT: <resource>
    on_success:                                 #optional
      - script: echo 'This block executes after the TASK section executes successfully'
      - NOTIFY: slackNotification
    on_failure:                                 #optional
      - script: echo 'This block executes if the TASK section fails'
      - NOTIFY: slackNotification
    always:                                     #optional
      - script: echo 'This block executes if the TASK section succeeds or fails'
      - NOTIFY: slackNotification


```

* `name` should be set to something that describes what the job does and is easy to remember. This will be the display name of the job in your pipeline visualization.
* `type` indicates type of job. In this case it is always `runCLI`.
* `on_start` can be used to send a notification indicating the job has started running.
* `steps` section is where the steps of your custom job should be entered. You can have any number of `IN` and `OUT` resources depending on what your job needs. If an `IN` resource is a [cliConfig](../resources/cliConfig/), we will use the integration specified in the `cliConfig` to configure the relevant CLI tools for you. You can also have one `TASK` section where you can enter one or more of your custom scripts. Keep in mind that everything under the `steps` section executes sequentially.
* `on_success` can be used to run scripts that only execute if the `TASK` section executes successfully. You can also use this to send a notification as shown in the example above. The `NOTIFY` tag is set to a [Slack notification resource](../resources/notification/).
* `on_failure` can be used to run scripts that only execute if the `TASK` section fails. You can also use this to send a notification as shown in the example above. The `NOTIFY` tag is set to a [Slack notification resource](../resources/notification/).
* `always` can be used to run scripts that only execute if the `TASK` section succeeds or fails. You can also use this to send a notification as shown in the example above. The `NOTIFY` tag is set to a [Slack notification resource](../resources/notification/).

## Configured tools
The runCLI job uses the subscription integration specified in the [cliConfig](../resources/cliConfig/) to determine which CLI tools to configure. These tools are configured with the credentials contained in the [subscription integration](../../navigatingUI/subscriptions/settings/#adding-integrations). Below is a list of the tools configured for each integration type.

| Integration Type                    | Configured Tools           |
| ------------------------------------|-------------|
| AWS                                 | [AWS CLI](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/); [EB (Elastic Beanstalk) CLI](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticbeanstalk/latest/dg/eb-cli3.html) |
| Amazon EC2 Container Registry (ECR) | [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/docker/) |
| Docker Hub                          | [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/docker/) |
| Docker Trusted Registry             | [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/docker/) |
| Google Container Engine             | [gcloud](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/); [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/user-guide/kubectl/) |
| Google Container Registry (GCR)     | [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/docker/) |
| JFrog Artifactory                   | [JFrog CLI](https://www.jfrog.com/confluence/display/CLI/CLI+for+JFrog+Artifactory) |
| Kubernetes                          | [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/user-guide/kubectl/) |
| Private Docker Registry             | [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/docker/) |
| Quay.io                             | [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/docker/) |

Terraform and Packer are also installed by default, and will be available in the path but not configured.

It's worth noting that if a runCLI job receives multiple `cliConfig` resources for the same provider, we will use the credentials contained in the last listed `cliConfig` when authenticating.

## shippable_replace
When you create a `runCLI` job, the `shippable_replace` command-line tool is automatically installed. `shippable_replace` looks for placeholders in one or more files, then replaces the placeholders with the values of the corresponding environment variables.

`shippable_replace` is used as follows:
```
shippable_replace [paths to files]
```

The file(s) passed to `shippable_replace` may contain one or more placeholders for environment variables. Placeholders are strings of the form $ENVIRONMENT_VARIABLE_NAME or ${ENVIRONMENT_VARIABLE_NAME}. We recommend ${ENVIRONMENT_VARIABLE_NAME}, as it is less likely to cause errors if you have an environment variable name that is a substring of another environment variable's name.

For example, say you wanted to insert the current job name into two different files: `file1.json` and `test/file2.txt`. The name of the environment variable containing the job name is `JOB_NAME`. (See the [runSh documentation](./runSh/) for the list of available environment variables.)

`file1.json` might look like this:
```
{
  "foo": "bar",
  "jobName": "${JOB_NAME}"
}
```
`test/file2.txt` contains this:
```
This job, ${JOB_NAME}, is the coolest job ever.
```
`shippable_replace` is then added to the task section of the `runCLI` job:
```
jobs:
  - name: myRunCLIJob
    type: runCLI
    steps:
      - IN: <resource>
      - TASK:
        - script: shippable_replace file1.json test/file2.txt
```

After `shippable_replace`, `file1.json` now looks like this:
```
{
  "foo": "bar",
  "jobName": "myRunCLIJob",
  "fizz": "buzz"
}
```
And `test/file2.txt` looks like this:
```
This job, myRunCLIJob, is the coolest job ever.
```

## Resource variables
Variables are added to the environment for all `IN` and `OUT` resources defined for the runCLI job. The environment variables are the same as those available for [runSh](./runSh/) jobs.

## Build Status Notifications
If you have a gitRepo as IN to a runCLI job, then you can see the pull request build status for that runCLI job.
You can also selectively turn ON and OFF the message system using the `showBuildStatus` tag in the git Repo resource.

The sample runSh Job and the corresponding gitRepo resource will look like

```
jobs:
  - name: <name>                                #required
    type: runCLI                                #required
    steps:                                      #required
      - IN: <gitRepoResource>                   #specify at least one gitRepo resource to receive the commit message.
        showBuildStatus: true                   #specify to get the build status of the gitRepo resource on the SCM UI
      - TASK:
        - script: <command>
        - script: <command>

```
and the corresponding gitRepo resource will be

```
resources:
  - name: <name>                                #required
    type: gitRepo                               #required
    integration: <integrationName>              #required
    pointer:
      sourceName: <repoName>                    #required
      branch: <branchName>                      #specify the branch name
      buildOnPullRequest: <boolean>             #specify true or false accordingly

```
* Now after doing the above steps, if a pull request is created for the branch name given in the gitRepo resource Yml, then
  the build status message will be sent to the SCM provider UI (whose integration is mentioned in the resources Yml) for the
  repo mentioned in the sourceName in the resources Yml.

* When the runCLI job is in the processing state the github UI will look like
<img src="../../images/processingBuildStatus.png" alt="Build Status Processing" style="width:800px;vertical-align: middle;display: block;margin-right: auto;"/>

* When the runCLI job successfully completes, the github UI will look like
<img src="../../images/successBuildStatus.png" alt="Build Status Success" style="width:800px;vertical-align: middle;display: block;margin-right: auto;"/>

* When the runCLI job is cancelled or failed the github UI will look like
<img src="../../images/failedBuildStatus.png" alt="Build Status Failed" style="width:800px;vertical-align: middle;display: block;margin-right: auto;"/>
