sources/navigatingUI/projects/settings.md, before:

page_title: Navigating Shippable's Projects Settings UI
page_description: Overview of Shippable's Projects Settings UI
page_keywords: User Interface, microservices, Continuous Integration, Continuous Deployment, CI/CD, testing, automation, pipelines, docker, lxc

#Projects Settings
You can perform project level actions by clicking on the `Settings` tab on the
Project page as shown below:

<img src="../../images/projects/settings.png" alt="Project Settings" style="width:700px;"/>

## Options section
### Syncing your project
We sync your account with your source control provider once every 4 hours.

However, there are times when you want to force a sync in order to see recently changes that
were made in your source control.

You can force a sync by clicking on the `Sync` button in the Sync section of the Project settings page.

This action simply makes sure the permissions and repository changes from your source control are reflected in your Shippable project.

Here are few scenarios where you will want to sync your project:

- A new branch has been created on your GitHub/Bitbucket repository and you don't
find it on Shippable
- The Project's name or language has been changed and is not reflected on Shippable

### Pausing your project
You can 'Pause' a project to stop triggering builds for this project.

This means Shippable will stop listening to all code commits and pull requests on your source
control repository and no action will be taken.

You can 'Resume' a paused project, which will re-establish the web hooks to your source control repository.

This will enable Shippable to trigger builds for code commits and pull requests.

### Clearing cache
You can clear cache for your project by clicking on the `Clear cache` button.

This will clean up all cached Docker images from your build hosts and the next build will pull the build image again.

### Resetting the project
Resetting a project recreates all webhooks and deployment keys for your project.

This should only be done if your project is in an inconsistent state and you need to restore it.

### Deleting the project
You can delete your project by clicking on the `Delete` button and then clicking on `Confirm`.

Please note that deleting a project will delete all build history and delete all webhooks.

Deleting a project has no effect on the repository in your source control.

---

## Runs Config section

### Dashboard Settings
By default, we show a project's status on the Subscription and Home pages with
the following logic:

- Show status of latest commit build of default branch configured in source
control repo
- If no default branch, show latest commit build for master branch
- If no master branch, show status of the latest build across branches.

Builds triggered for pull requests are not considered while determining status
of a branch.

You can override this default behavior in the Dashboard Settings section by
customizing the following:

- **Branches to be displayed**: choose the branch(es) that you want displayed on
the Subscription and Landing pages.
- **Run types to be displayed**: Specify whether you want the computation for
project status to include builds triggered by pull requests in addition to ones
triggered by a commit..

For example, the configuration below will show status of the latest build for
branches master and sample_nodejs_branch, irrespective of whether it was triggered
by a commit or a pull request..

<img src="../../images/projects/dashboard.png" alt="Project Settings Dashboard
configuration" style="width:700px;"/>

### Configure Webhook Events for Triggering Builds
In this section, you can enable or disable triggering of builds for your project,
based on specific webhook events on your source control system.

- **Pull Requests**: Default value is Enabled. Every pull request initiated on
the project in your source control system, triggers a build on Shippable. Click
'Disable' to stop the triggering of builds for this project.
- **Commits**: Default value is Enabled. Every commit initiated on the project
in your source control system, triggers a build on Shippable. Click 'Disable' to
stop the triggering of builds for this project.
- **Tags**: Default value is Disabled. To trigger builds for all git tag push events
on the project in your source control system, click 'Enable'. Currently this feature
is supported only for GitHub.
- **Releases**: Default value is Disabled. To trigger builds for all GitHub release
events on the project in your source control system, click 'Enable'. Currently this
feature is supported only for GitHub.

NOTE: The above webhook events, when enabled, trigger builds on Shippable irrespective
of the user who initiated the event on the source control system.


<img src="../../images/projects/triggerBuilds.png" alt="Configure Webhook events
to trigger builds" style="width:700px;"/>

Walk through the different scenarios and [configure webhooks to trigger Continuous
Integration builds](http://blog.shippable.com/configure-web-hooks-to-trigger-continuous-integration).  

### Run Parallel Jobs
Disabling parallel jobs allows you to restrict job processing based on branch name.

When this setting is disabled, any waiting job will not begin until all processing
jobs have completed.

You can further customize this by selecting the specific branches that you don't
want running in parallel.

<img src="../../images/projects/runParallelJobs.png" alt="Run Parallel Jobs" style="width:700px;"/>

In this example, if jobs are triggered simultaneously for branches `master` and
`prtest`, only one job will be allowed to run at a time, even if the subscription
has two idle nodes.  

However, if this project were to trigger a job on a branch that was not selected, it would start as soon as it finds  an available node.

The serial jobs will run in the order that they were queued.


### Custom Timeout
By default, builds that are running for over 60 minutes (for free accounts) or over 120 minutes (for paid accounts) will time out.

You can configure the timeout setting between 1 and 60/120 minutes for your project.

- Click 'Edit'
- Input a number between 1 and 60 (for free accounts) or 1 and 120 minutes (for
paid accounts)
- Click 'Save'
- Once you set a custom timeout, it'll be in effect immediately
- Click on 'Clear' to revert back to the default setting of 120 minutes

<img src="../../images/projects/timeout.png" alt="Customize Timeouts" style="width:700px;"/>

For more details refer to our blog - [Changing the default time for a Continuous
Integration projet](http://blog.shippable.com/changing-the-default-timeout-for-a-continuous-integration-project).

###Low Coverage Alert
You can configure a low coverage alert for your project.

First you can set the job coverage percentage under which notifications will be triggered.

You can also mark builds as unstable, if the job coverage goes below the threshold value you've
set.

To set this up, follow these steps:

- Click 'Edit'
- Move the slider between 0 and 99 under the 'Threshold value of coverage' section
- Choose if you would like to mark the build as unstable by selecting the 'Yes'
or 'No' options in the dropdown
- Click 'Save'
- Once you set the low coverage alert, it'll be in effect immediately
- Click on 'Edit' and set values to '0' and 'No' to revert back to the default
settings

<img src="../../images/projects/lowCoverage.png" alt="Low Coverage Alert" style="width:700px;"/>

---

## Encrypt section
### Encrypting your environment variables
Shippable allows you to encrypt your environment variable definitions and keep your configurations private in your shippable.yml by using the `secure` tag.

To encrypt a variable, enter the environment variable and its values in the text box as shown below and click on `Encrypt`-

```
name="abc"
```
To encrypt multiple variables, you can use the following syntax-

```
var1="abc" var2="xyz"
```
You can now use these encrypted variables in your shippable.yml with a secure tag.

For example,

```
env:
  secure: <encrypted output>
```
You can also decrypt previously encrypted values by pasting the encrypted values in the 'Decrypt' section and clicking the `Decrypt` button.

<img src="../../images/projects/encrypt.png" alt="Encrypt Environment Variables" style="width:700px;"/>

---

## Badges section

### Status badges
You can get embeddable build status badges for your project. These provide a visual indication of project status.

Select the branch you want the status for and also whether you want the 'Image URL' or 'Markdown' options.

Copy the embedded code.

You can use this code anywhere you want to display the badge.

For example, many customers  display this badge in the README.md of their project so anyone who goes to the project page on GitHub/Bitbucket can see it and know the project's status.  

To learn more about practical examples, check out our blog - [Configuring a build badge for a node.js project status](http://blog.shippable.com/configuring-a-visual-indicator-for-a-node.js-project-status).

### Code coverage badges
Similar to the build status badge, you can get embedded code coverage badges for
your project, to provide visualization of the code coverage status for a repository.

Select the branch you want the status for and pick between the 'Image URL' or
'Markdown' options. Copy the embedded code.

You can use this code to display your code coverage report after code coverage
runs. The badge displays appropriate colors depending on the code coverage
configuration in the `shippable.yml`. Refer the  
[documentation **UpdateLink**](test_code_coverage) on how to configure code
coverage reports. In addition, refer to a step by step blog on [setting up code
coverage for tests in Continuous Integration](http://blog.shippable.com/setting-up-code-coverage-visualization-for-tests-in-ci).

<img src="../../images/projects/badges.png" alt="Badges for Test and Code Coverage" style="width:700px;"/>

---

## Integrations section
To add an integration to your project, go to the Subscription's 'Settings'.
[Click here](/navigatingUI/subscriptions/settings/#integrations) for instructions.

---

Commit message:

added 24 hr custom timeout limit for BYON

sources/navigatingUI/projects/settings.md, after:

page_title: Navigating Shippable's Projects Settings UI
page_description: Overview of Shippable's Projects Settings UI
page_keywords: User Interface, microservices, Continuous Integration, Continuous Deployment, CI/CD, testing, automation, pipelines, docker, lxc

#Projects Settings
You can perform project level actions by clicking on the `Settings` tab on the
Project page as shown below:

<img src="../../images/projects/settings.png" alt="Project Settings" style="width:700px;"/>

## Options section
### Syncing your project
We sync your account with your source control provider once every 4 hours.

However, there are times when you want to force a sync in order to see recently changes that
were made in your source control.

You can force a sync by clicking on the `Sync` button in the Sync section of the Project settings page.

This action simply makes sure the permissions and repository changes from your source control are reflected in your Shippable project.

Here are few scenarios where you will want to sync your project:

- A new branch has been created on your GitHub/Bitbucket repository and you don't
find it on Shippable
- The Project's name or language has been changed and is not reflected on Shippable

### Pausing your project
You can 'Pause' a project to stop triggering builds for this project.

This means Shippable will stop listening to all code commits and pull requests on your source
control repository and no action will be taken.

You can 'Resume' a paused project, which will re-establish the web hooks to your source control repository.

This will enable Shippable to trigger builds for code commits and pull requests.

### Clearing cache
You can clear cache for your project by clicking on the `Clear cache` button.

This will clean up all cached Docker images from your build hosts and the next build will pull the build image again.

### Resetting the project
Resetting a project recreates all webhooks and deployment keys for your project.

This should only be done if your project is in an inconsistent state and you need to restore it.

### Deleting the project
You can delete your project by clicking on the `Delete` button and then clicking on `Confirm`.

Please note that deleting a project will delete all build history and delete all webhooks.

Deleting a project has no effect on the repository in your source control.

---

## Runs Config section

### Dashboard Settings
By default, we show a project's status on the Subscription and Home pages with
the following logic:

- Show status of latest commit build of default branch configured in source
control repo
- If no default branch, show latest commit build for master branch
- If no master branch, show status of the latest build across branches.

Builds triggered for pull requests are not considered while determining status
of a branch.

You can override this default behavior in the Dashboard Settings section by
customizing the following:

- **Branches to be displayed**: choose the branch(es) that you want displayed on
the Subscription and Landing pages.
- **Run types to be displayed**: Specify whether you want the computation for
project status to include builds triggered by pull requests in addition to ones
triggered by a commit..

For example, the configuration below will show status of the latest build for
branches master and sample_nodejs_branch, irrespective of whether it was triggered
by a commit or a pull request..

<img src="../../images/projects/dashboard.png" alt="Project Settings Dashboard
configuration" style="width:700px;"/>

### Configure Webhook Events for Triggering Builds
In this section, you can enable or disable triggering of builds for your project,
based on specific webhook events on your source control system.

- **Pull Requests**: Default value is Enabled. Every pull request initiated on
the project in your source control system, triggers a build on Shippable. Click
'Disable' to stop the triggering of builds for this project.
- **Commits**: Default value is Enabled. Every commit initiated on the project
in your source control system, triggers a build on Shippable. Click 'Disable' to
stop the triggering of builds for this project.
- **Tags**: Default value is Disabled. To trigger builds for all git tag push events
on the project in your source control system, click 'Enable'. Currently this feature
is supported only for GitHub.
- **Releases**: Default value is Disabled. To trigger builds for all GitHub release
events on the project in your source control system, click 'Enable'. Currently this
feature is supported only for GitHub.

NOTE: The above webhook events, when enabled, trigger builds on Shippable irrespective
of the user who initiated the event on the source control system.


<img src="../../images/projects/triggerBuilds.png" alt="Configure Webhook events
to trigger builds" style="width:700px;"/>

Walk through the different scenarios and [configure webhooks to trigger Continuous
Integration builds](http://blog.shippable.com/configure-web-hooks-to-trigger-continuous-integration).  

### Run Parallel Jobs
Disabling parallel jobs allows you to restrict job processing based on branch name.

When this setting is disabled, any waiting job will not begin until all processing
jobs have completed.

You can further customize this by selecting the specific branches that you don't
want running in parallel.

<img src="../../images/projects/runParallelJobs.png" alt="Run Parallel Jobs" style="width:700px;"/>

In this example, if jobs are triggered simultaneously for branches `master` and
`prtest`, only one job will be allowed to run at a time, even if the subscription
has two idle nodes.  

However, if this project were to trigger a job on a branch that was not selected, it would start as soon as it finds  an available node.

The serial jobs will run in the order that they were queued.


### Custom Timeout
By default, builds that are running for over 60 minutes (for free accounts) or over 120 minutes (for paid accounts) will time out.

You can configure the timeout setting between 1 and 60/120 minutes for your project.

- Click 'Edit'
- Input a number between 1 and 60 (for free accounts) or 1 and 120 minutes (for
paid accounts)
     - NOTE: Subscriptions with custom nodes ([BYON](http://docs.shippable.com/ci/advancedOptions/byon/)) can set timeouts up to 1440 minutes (24 hours)
- Click 'Save'
- Once you set a custom timeout, it'll be in effect immediately
- Click on 'Clear' to revert back to the default setting of 120 minutes

<img src="../../images/projects/timeout.png" alt="Customize Timeouts" style="width:700px;"/>

For more details refer to our blog - [Changing the default time for a Continuous
Integration projet](http://blog.shippable.com/changing-the-default-timeout-for-a-continuous-integration-project).

###Low Coverage Alert
You can configure a low coverage alert for your project.

First you can set the job coverage percentage under which notifications will be triggered.

You can also mark builds as unstable, if the job coverage goes below the threshold value you've
set.

To set this up, follow these steps:

- Click 'Edit'
- Move the slider between 0 and 99 under the 'Threshold value of coverage' section
- Choose if you would like to mark the build as unstable by selecting the 'Yes'
or 'No' options in the dropdown
- Click 'Save'
- Once you set the low coverage alert, it'll be in effect immediately
- Click on 'Edit' and set values to '0' and 'No' to revert back to the default
settings

<img src="../../images/projects/lowCoverage.png" alt="Low Coverage Alert" style="width:700px;"/>

---

## Encrypt section
### Encrypting your environment variables
Shippable allows you to encrypt your environment variable definitions and keep your configurations private in your shippable.yml by using the `secure` tag.

To encrypt a variable, enter the environment variable and its values in the text box as shown below and click on `Encrypt`-

```
name="abc"
```
To encrypt multiple variables, you can use the following syntax-

```
var1="abc" var2="xyz"
```
You can now use these encrypted variables in your shippable.yml with a secure tag.

For example,

```
env:
  secure: <encrypted output>
```
You can also decrypt previously encrypted values by pasting the encrypted values in the 'Decrypt' section and clicking the `Decrypt` button.

<img src="../../images/projects/encrypt.png" alt="Encrypt Environment Variables" style="width:700px;"/>

---

## Badges section

### Status badges
You can get embeddable build status badges for your project. These provide a visual indication of project status.

Select the branch you want the status for and also whether you want the 'Image URL' or 'Markdown' options.

Copy the embedded code.

You can use this code anywhere you want to display the badge.

For example, many customers  display this badge in the README.md of their project so anyone who goes to the project page on GitHub/Bitbucket can see it and know the project's status.  

To learn more about practical examples, check out our blog - [Configuring a build badge for a node.js project status](http://blog.shippable.com/configuring-a-visual-indicator-for-a-node.js-project-status).

### Code coverage badges
Similar to the build status badge, you can get embedded code coverage badges for
your project, to provide visualization of the code coverage status for a repository.

Select the branch you want the status for and pick between the 'Image URL' or
'Markdown' options. Copy the embedded code.

You can use this code to display your code coverage report after code coverage
runs. The badge displays appropriate colors depending on the code coverage
configuration in the `shippable.yml`. Refer the  
[documentation **UpdateLink**](test_code_coverage) on how to configure code
coverage reports. In addition, refer to a step by step blog on [setting up code
coverage for tests in Continuous Integration](http://blog.shippable.com/setting-up-code-coverage-visualization-for-tests-in-ci).

<img src="../../images/projects/badges.png" alt="Badges for Test and Code Coverage" style="width:700px;"/>

---

## Integrations section
To add an integration to your project, go to the Subscription's 'Settings'.
[Click here](/navigatingUI/subscriptions/settings/#integrations) for instructions.

---
